Hi, everyone. At first, I'm like literally shaking. Those talks were so good. How am
I supposed to follow that up? But now I don't do hashtag sports ball, but that is a layup
where this is going to be great. So today's talk is going to be about creating a design
system for Shiny and RMarkdown, which I've called hashtag on brand. I don't care if your
company is 100 people, or you have multiple clients that you're trying to manage, or just
yourself, having a consistent and cohesive UI, Greg might not hate it. Okay, so this
talk is coming from a very selfish place. I work with a lot of clients where I'll look
at their websites, and we'll see eight different styled buttons all performing the same action.
So I've kind of provided this like scholastic compare what's different in these photos
of a bad and good UI. So don't do this. You'll see the top image and the bottom image are
different sizes. Why, why, why? Why? You have header text under both images that are different
sizes, different colors, and different opacities. I'm literally getting hives just thinking
about this. There's a bunch here. I'll leave that to you. These slides are available for
free. Okay, so Greg talked about incredible rules, but I am not a designer. I'm a programmer,
and I want rules that I can govern my code by. So I'm going to talk about a design system,
what is a design system? I got you. It's a set of rules, constraints, and principles
implemented in design and code. Let's walk through an example here. A rule for color
would be that you have to pass a minimum color contrast ratio for accessibility, legibility.
If you're going to put text on a background, I have to be able to read that. Now, a constraint
of that is going to be these are my colors in my color palette. I am a millennial. I
love pink. This is going to be my color palette for the rest of this talk, and that's also
my guiding principle that I'm just leaning into loving these two colors. There can be
a whole conference itself in color theory and why you should use green or whatever,
but your principle can also just be as simple as, like, I like Barbie. A little bit more
informative here, shiny twist is an error message, right? That's something really important
that you want to leverage to your users, so you're going to use a bright, bold color to
denote that. You will see my background color and the text color are legible enough that
you can read that text, and then my governing principle again is that red is important,
and my eye is going to go straight towards that. So, this set of rules, principles, and
the constraints, you're going to apply that to all the things, not just color. Spacing,
how tightly are you going to pack those things that Greg just taught us we should put together?
Do you want to let them breathe, or should they be really tight? Typography. I overheard
at lunch one of the most incredible developers I know using a PowerPoint slide deck, and
he was like, I just changed my font from the default, and now it looks like I have
a brand. Yes, Queen, yes. All these things are important. We can use all of these components
of our system to create components, and we're going to use those reusable components inside
page layouts. Do you need a visual? I do. Here's a component. Let's say it's a button.
I'm going to apply my rules, constraints, and principles to this button. Now, in shiny
land, which we all are, now we can create a shiny module like a plot that always lives
with this button. This code always lives together. And then finally, I can put those reusable
modules inside my entire page layout. That pink little cutie is always the same one,
and we will always be using that one all the time, and not eight different buttons, please!
So that takes us to a design kit. It's a collection of assets that contains a set of design elements
such as UI components and styles. So, Joe did a ton of heavy lifting for me yesterday.
Thank you so much that I don't have to talk about the basics of HTML, and Greg's hashtag
no HTML, no CSS. Where are my nerds at? Yes, we want to learn these things! If you use
tags dollar sign button in the console and see what that prints out, that's your HTML
that Joe was talking about, and this is the ugly button that you get with vanilla HTML,
but she's reliable and faithful. You get this pointer when you scroll over it, a thick
dark border, and a grey kind of background colour. So that's a vanilla HTML button. But
now we have an action button, and harking back to Joe's talk where you have HTML and
actions if X do Y, but what Joe didn't talk about and Greg did was that we also get CSS
for free using Bootstrap. We're opting into a design system. Thank you so much. This button
is already so much better. When I hover over it, the background turns grey. How is this
happening? My HTML element has classes that Bootstrap is going to leverage. I urge you,
the best way to learn this stuff is play with it, break it, and the rest of my talk is going
to be the journey of doing that to create my super extra button that I am, again, I
don't want to be put in a box. My buttons are going to be round. I have my pink text
and my pink background, and I call this button primary button. So we're going to make a package
R code, sigh, I can do this. We're going to make a package, and in this package, we're
going to put all of our assets, but, again, this is the journey of our humble button.
So this is a root directory of our package, and we have an R file for our button, a CSS
file, and then within an ins folder, we'll have a CSS file and a JavaScript file because
I want to give you in this talk pedagogically all the things. You don't necessarily need
all of these, but you'll have the code, can play with it.
So let's start in R. If there's one thing I want you to take from this talk, it's probably
this slide. Love that for you. Take a shiny input, and then you can use the function tagless
append attributes to put your own classes on those HTML elements, so it's like, psych,
I don't want to use BS lib or whatever, I want to use my own thing that I'm making from
scratch because I'm stubborn, I'm a developer. And then we can use this wonderful magical
function, HTML tools, HTML dependency, which essentially says take that JavaScript file
and that CSS file, and now when you render that button, you get those for free along
for the ride. So now I can just call primary button in my
cordo, R markdown, shiny app, they're all going to look and feel the same because you
get all that in your list object, chef's kiss, beautiful. So that's our button.
Now for the CSS. I really just want you to focus on the first three lines here. Primary
button was the class I gave it. This whole first three line in CSS is called a rule,
and in that rule, we're going to say apply to my class of primary button the value with
the value of background color white or pink, whatever, in my case. And here's where you're
going to lay out all the CSS that you want for your button. I am not, Greg, I am not
a designer. This talk is not to tell you what color pink to look and why you hate the things
that you do. That's your own journey. But I just want to give you the tools to get up
and running with this, right? And I want you to also think about different states in CSS.
So we have this concept of pseudo selectors. So not only am I styling the button, I need
to think about hovering. I need to think about people who are not using keyboard for navigation,
and if they're using tab, how do you know where you are in the page? That's a focus
state. You'll get usually a heavy ring around it. And then disabled. I can't click this
button. What does that look like? So I want you to focus on the button itself, but also
these different states. And then lastly is the JavaScript file. I'm not going over this.
It's kind of just a flex that I can't do this. My button, when you click on the button,
it creates this little ripple effect. Again, slides, play with it, have fun. But I just
again wanted to show you, you can attach JavaScript and do more things there too. All right. This
is my Easter egg slide. If you click on this, you get my design kit, which is a markdown
of all the elements here. And I don't have time for that. You guys all have computers.
I want to talk about my two favorites in the kit. In the kit, you're going to put the output.
I need to see what it looks like. But also the code. Because if it's not documented,
it doesn't exist. So document. Okay? And why I want to show these off is because they're
so cute. So when I hover over this input, it turns black. And then when I'm inside that
input, my label turned pink. And that was hard. So please let me have this moment. Another
thing I wanted to show is you can really have a lot of voice in what I'm going to call or
what are called microinteractions. I for my tab panel here, I wanted a little swoop, swoop.
I think that's really fun. These little microanimations are a really lively way to set up your slides.
But you don't want to go too crazy and like turn it into, you know, a PowerPoint deck
with like animations all over the place. So this is kind of like a take a picture to last
longer slide of elements to include in your UI kit. Nav bar, tabs, buttons. You know,
go ahead, smash that like button. Perhaps not needed in an academic setting. So you
don't need that in your presentation. But other elements here that you can take away
from this. And then lastly, I this is all like standing on the shoulders of giants here
who have written incredible books on how to integrate JavaScript and CSS in HTML and R.
And then I wanted to also plug this incredible book refactoring UI which has amazing visuals
for like this why does this bother me and this looks great. And with that, I just want
to thank everyone. It's been so awesome to be here and hanging out with everyone has
been incredible. So thank you.